let's take this on Jord Sonet is
Muhammad elmy a political analyst and
professor of media studies at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies welcome
Muhammad uh no detail yet of what went
on between David Cameron uh and Benny
Gans but along the lines presumably what
Cameron was saying on Tuesday that
patients needs to run very thin but what
does that even mean because Israel has
proven Adept to ignoring World
opinion right I mean in many ways
patience has has been running thin or or
should have R thin um a long time ago uh
more than 30,000 Palestinians uh have
been killed many thousands other uh
thousands of others missing and under
the rubble uh Aid is not getting in in
sufficient quantity and and uh Aid
organizations are warning of imminent uh
famine so in if anything David Cameron's
remarks are are sort of an
understatement um but uh as we've seen
uh Israel is adamant about um continuing
the War uh despite the fact that its
closest allies like the United States
have said that it's it's unwinable given
Israel's uh endgame given their their
primary objective as stated uh
nonetheless they want to continue uh
they want to continue to fight on and
they seem uh adamant about that it's
certainly been a big change in tune from
the United States and UK there has been
um I think it's been interesting to
follow um you know us uh discourse uh I
think this week we saw some of the most
um critical discourse coming out of the
US Administration that we've heard about
Israel I'm hesitant to say that things
have changed uh meaningfully I'm always
more interested in what the US is doing
than what the the US is saying because
often times there's you know there can
be this kind of empty empty rhetoric but
I don't think there's any question that
the Biden Administration is is very
concerned uh they're dragged into this
now uh for five months um they're seen
as complicit in genocide some of the
recent polling data out of the United
States has to be of concern uh to Joe
Biden right the court of public opinion
is what you're referring to an election
year absolutely and you know half of
Democrats now believe that Israel is
carrying out genocide so it depends on
how you want to read the data on the one
hand Biden can point to the fact that
his approval rating has not actually
gone down since October since this all
started on the other hand if half of his
party uh believes that this is a
genocide and that he's supporting the
the genocide um and if young people
increasingly are moving away from Israel
and closer to the the the Palestinian
position which the public opinion data
uh suggests then um then that those
could be troubling signs and that's to
that's to say nothing of the Arab and
and Muslim votes which will will figure
prominently into certain States like
Michigan and New Jersey and in the
background of cause these negotiations
for a potential ceasefire uh bubbling
away taking a long time to get anywhere
what what are the obstacles why is it so
difficult to get anywhere with this I
thought it was interesting what Daniel
Levy said he's somebody that you you all
have had on an El jazer former Israeli
negotiator and yesterday he said that
hamas's position is quote reasonable the
offer that they're bringing to the table
they basically want a complete end to to
all the cessation of violence and
they're willing to give up all of the uh
the captives that they have the Israeli
captives that they have um that's kind
of what the the broader World Community
has been asking for now for for months
give up the hostages let's stop the
fighting Israel however as I mentioned
at the beginning they remain adamant
that they want to temporary pause only
to resume the bombing uh and bombardment
of Gaza at the conclusion of that truce
and From hamas's perspective there just
doesn't seem to be a lot of incentive to
give up their bargaining ships on the
one hand and then uh have Israel resume
the bombing uh on the other hand
Muhammad we'll leave it there thanks for
that Muhammad Elm professor of media
studies at the Doha Institute of
Graduate Studies thank you
thanks